When it comes to Urdu.
Oh yeah, that's true.
Okay.
Perfect, the record is in.
Okay, thank you.
So let's move on to phase one,
discover and align.
And this is basically where I feel the
practices will start to change because
different practices have different types
of discovery sessions. And
different artifacts.
and different even like steps that needs
to be done. For example, in app mod,
Tariq told me that you guys have to like
literally go through the whole code base
of the customer, right, for their app,
their existing application.
You have to like go over the whole
architecture and you know,
have to do so many things.
You have to check whether they have
regression testing done or not. So like.
And for app dev,
that's not an issue because we're
starting from scratch, correct? So.
Mostly,
like there are some projects in app dev
Yeah.
that is a part of, you know,
some enhancements,
so they're not the greenfield.
Right.
Exactly, exactly. So I guess my point is,
you know,
discovery is where the practice
differences will start showing up the
most. But yeah,
but I guess the idea is sort of the same,
Exactly.
that, you know,
they'll have the kickoff call,
they'll have all this discovery sessions
and all the output gets fed back into
Kiro.
You re-index it and then,
and at this stage,
you create the working SRS, right?
And that's what you also showed us in
that governance app as well, right? That,
and again, again,
Exactly.
I don't think Qasim wants to know, okay,
but the phase zero may be generated,
it's being generated, and then phase one,
you're generating the working SRS.
It's the same thing,
but I guess what we want to track is...
How is the discovery, yeah, exactly,
the discovery readout session of the SRS
The purple thing.
with the client and the quality of that.
Not just that it happened, yes or no.
Maybe yes or no is not the right.
wording over here.
I may have to go back and fix it,
but the quality of the session.
So just mention quality in the purple
thingy.
Okay.
Yeah,
that would that would be much more useful
since it's not a one or zero anymore.
Yeah,
I think I should remove all the the guess
It's just.
and knows because Qasim clearly didn't
want that.
And initially for us when we were
discussing it with Chris, he's like, no,
we just want to track whether it happened
or not. But clearly Qasim wants deeper,
right, or qualitative analysis.
So I'm just going to be removing yes or
AZ.
no from.
all of them. So again,
I don't think we need to track any of the
micro stuff.
We can just track whether this meeting,
I mean,
what the quality of this meeting and the
final gates.
Was the final,
was the SRS or what are the artifacts of
this discovery phase?
Was it reviewed by SA and team?
Quick question.
What about the internal team?
Do we need to track microgates? I thought,
I really thought that was useful.
Because we are getting notified that the
SRS was made even before anyone is coming
to us and telling us, hey, I made the SRS,
woohoo, right? So it was just tracking,
Yeah.
hey, SRS was generated. So that.
You want to track this internal meeting
as well?
No, no, no, no, not the internal meeting.
I'm talking about the artifacts,
Oh, the artifact.
the soft artifacts.
I wouldn't call it physical,
they're not on the paper, but yeah,
you get my point.
Yeah, yeah.
Okay, you want to track this SRS?
The SRS, there is your spec files,
which is the part of decomposition,
Micro level.
domain decomposition,
and a lot of things that you mentioned in
I think that, yeah,
I think that will come.
the managed service.
I think this will come in the later phase,
but in phase one we are,
I think we're just creating this artifact,
SRS.
Yeah, for the app app dev, I believe so.
This is the only artifact of phase one.
Yeah, exactly, exactly.
So I think we're good here. But what,
and I guess the governance check would be
over here.
that did the SRS get reviewed? I mean,
not created because, you know,
that's not important.
Was it reviewed by SA and the wider team?
Was the scope and success confirmed by
the customer within this meeting and
current state documented?
I don't think this one is important.
Um...
What is the current state documented?
Like the version of it?
But...
No, I think the current stage of their...
of their architecture or something.
But I think it's a part of SRS, no? Like,
doesn't the SRS like have the current
state architecture or something?
It has something known as versions.
Like there are different versions,
like there are different drafts of SRS,
something changed, something added,
something, you know,
that wasn't previously discussed.
So there are different versions of
working SRS.
Okay,
so this was given to me by Qasim and I'm
not sure what this means.
I'm not sure whether it means like the
current state architecture.
of the customer and not the target state
architecture, if you know what I mean.
Or maybe we can just remove it.
Yeah, where they are,
where they are standing right now,
something like that.
Yes, exactly.
Like what is the current state of,
for example, if it's an app mod,
I remember like for Gallo,
we made like a current state architecture
diagram for them. Okay, you know,
this is how their current system looks
like,
the architecture or the code base and
stuff.
You were on Gallo?
I mean,
I was in the capacity of technical writer,
project manager type a little bit.
Well, that's funny.
I got into Gallo for one week.
I got the MacBook and I got out.
Yeah.
We got the map. Lucky.
Yeah, that was an achievement,
so I had to tell it.
Okay. Is Mac really better than Windows?
I've never used Mac.
Well, if you're going to use one,
you are never going to use Windows again.
I've been using Mac since all my life and
I was it was very hard working with the
Windows before.
Okay.
I mean,
that must be a culture shock for you
Windows.
using Windows for the first time.
I do get racist sometime when it comes to
Mac or Windows.
What for you?
Okay.
Yeah,
so it's that much big of a difference.
But I heard.
But I heard developers, they prefer Linux,
and I'm not sure how much that's true.
Well,
developers do prefer Linux and Mac and
Linux share the same environment because
they were created under the same
Okay.
environment.
All right, then.
Okay.
So yeah,
I do understand what the current state
documented means now.
Okay, but do we need...
OKOK.
Because that is an important artifact.
If it's, you know,
like we need to know where we were at the
start, right?
Like there are points of the project.
There is a starting point and there is an
Yes, exactly.
ending point, right?
So if we skip the start,
That makes sense. Yeah. Yeah,
that's a good perspective.
there is no like definition.
Where did we start from?
Right.
Okay, I'll leave it here.
I guess we'll be focusing on this meeting
Yeah.
and tracking this.
Maybe I'll put a purple box like over
near the gate, at the gates as well,
so we know exactly what's being tracked
and I'll remove everything else.
So it's going to be easier for.
So that's not a purple box,
that's a purple thingy. And yes,
Yeah, yeah, I forgot about that. Yeah.
Yeah, I'll add those. And then, yeah,
I was gonna say it should be here.
and then we're good to go to phase two,
design and review. So design and review,
we are going to be generating all of
these.
documentation or artifacts,
domain decomposition,
and all of that great stuff. And.
And what are we tracking over here?
The IPR ticket?
Yeah.
So I guess let's go back to the gate as
well.
So now the on the IPR,
the transcript analysis is very important
You.
thing over there. So the like,
let me explain the meaning of this word
GG Yeah.
that I understood, right?
So this transcript analysis was something
that what happened in the meeting,
did we cover all those points?
points that were supposed to be covered.
So if that's a yes or a no.
Right, each point, each heading,
whether it's a yes or a no.
So that's your basic transcript analysis
that I understood.
So it was covering some headings,
like each meeting of obviously will have
different headings,
and it will just understand whether that
heading was covered.
or if it wasn't covered. On basis of code,
it had more confidence of saying that it
That makes sense, yeah, that.
was done.
That makes sense.
And like I helped create the deck for the
IPR. So we had, you know,
all these like deltas and scope and out
of scope.
And so I guess the analysis will check
for that project within that meeting were
all of the topics covered and was there a
resolution.
Right.
Yeah.
I mean, and Nayab, I have a small favor.
Are you in charge of the IPR meetings?
Are you the organizer?
Yep, 100%.
Uh,
Qasim has asked me to be added into the
meeting, so maybe from next week.
You can add me.
Yeah, definitely. Yeah,
I can add you to that.
Okay, thank you. So...
OK, coming back for us, I, yeah,
I guess I mean depends if like we have
the structure of the IPR right for each
project,
and we just have to follow the structure.
Okay,
so my question in this would be very
And net.
simple. Nayab could answer it,
you could answer it,
because I have not been a part of a lot
of IPR meetings.
I just attended one the last week, right?
So how many, like Qasim mentioned,
Okay.
this happens every Wednesday.
So how many projects do?
Yes.
they discuss in this meeting first.
Secondly,
how will we identify this was the meeting?
Now,
I did the same question with Qasim and he
was left, you know, with no answer. So,
Yeah.
how many, how will we identify?
Okay, I'll tell you the cadence.
All right,
so for us what happens is that every
Or not.
Monday I track commitments from the PMs
because again,
when you are a PM on a project,
they tell you that, okay,
maybe one week from now,
this deal is going to be in design and
review. So before design and review,
we have discover and align.
So any project that is a discover and
align is moving towards.
But designer review,
I asked the team and then they tell me,
okay, the IPR is going to be happening.
And one more thing, on our JIRA board,
on the tickets that we have over there,
every project has an implementing, sorry,
IPR date, actual date,
and IPR expected date.
So when I populate these dates,
every time when I get a commitment from
the project manager,
and then based on those commitments on
the Monday call,
I e-mail everyone like on Monday that
this is the deal that we will be
reviewing on the IPR deck.
And that's the basic cadence that is
going on. But in case if any project is.
If a PM says that, okay, I'm not ready,
there's some problems going on in the
project.
So what we do is that we go back to the
Jira ticket, we change the date,
and then we communicate it to the team
that this project is going to be moved to
the next IPR session that's going to
happen into the next week.
So that's a lot of manual work.
I mean, yeah, sort of.
Like asking here and here and then
confirming and reconfirming or even
rescheduling if someone come something
comes up. So a lot of variable things.
When we talk about variable things,
we need to make sure of one thing.
Yep.
If that was done or that was not done.
Nothing else could be done.
If that was done,
we can take the meeting link ourselves.
We can automate the next piece,
like if someone marks it as done.
So that is when we check the last IPR,
right?
And take out the meeting and then check
this on that point.
Like if that makes any sense.
So let's say if I am a PM, which I'm not.
So I say, yeah, my IPR was done.
Now my automated system,
which Qasim is looking for,
it's just going to look at the last IPR
that happened because it's going to have
the name of IPR meeting,
something like that.
Yeah, not not the project name.
So it's going to take a look at the last
meeting of IPR that happened and compare
the transcript.
Was our IPR over there or not?
Mm.
That's the first step. So, right? I mean,
what if it's not there?
If it's not there,
then it's a simple gate blockage,
like a false positive kind of a scenario.
Okay, so how do we solve that?
So that gets solved via something that is
called physical governance.
Taha.
Physical.
So you go and ask the PM, hey,
what do you mean?
That is as simple as that.
What do you mean?
Action.
Okay.
Yeah.
So,
like that is the only way I can think of.
If you have any better ideas,
I would love to hear them.
No, no problem.
I mean,
the only idea I have is which Qasim
rejected is that add the meeting link,
but you know, Qasim doesn't want that.
Well,
you do believe that it was a good idea.
I thank you, Nausheen.
I mean, like,
how else would you let them track the
meeting? You know,
because you know the IPR meeting,
it it doesn't have, at least in the title,
it wouldn't have the project name.
Exactly, 100% agreed.
So that's why when we are looking into
the last IPR,
after the PM comes in and checks, yeah,
Yeah.
that was done. Now we check the last IPR.
That's the only automated gate that can
happen. Other than that,
Yeah.
you have to provide the manual evidence.
That's out of the question,
out of the picture now.
So there is no other way. Nayab,
Okay.
can you think of anything? I think so.
You have a very creative brain sometimes.
All the time.
All the times.
Yeah.
I mean, I think, because again,
working with Chris and working with Qasim,
it's like two different mindsets.
Like Qasim is more towards like, you know,
Yeah.
how I can make this whole process as an
organizational level more accurate and
fitting.
Chris has this mindset that, you know,
if our team has the capacity of doing
stuff right,
so keeping those both things in mind,
you have to come up with something that's
more easier to go about with.
And I think in terms of the,
if we just speak of the IPR, I think,
again,
you're right that there's too much back
and forth going on.
because then there's scheduling,
there's reporting, and then, you know,
keeping up the reminders and all of that.
And I think if you can just automate or
maybe integrate something, I'm sure,
and again,
we are getting rid of Jira board.
So if in case we're connecting that,
we can just track up the dates.
or maybe like log commitments from the PM
and connect something if that can help in
some way. Again,
I'm not a technical person,
so that's what I can, you know, think of.
Well, again, that's...
Can we link it to Jira with the somehow?
I mean, Chris wants to get rid of Jira.
He doesn't want to do back and forth.
Check.
CST.
So I think what we can do.
I got a good plan. I got a good plan.
Sorry to cut you off, Nayab.
Nayab fills in this information.
She does that already. Why not over here?
Huh?
Like, at the meeting, Nick, or, or...
No, no, no,
not at the meeting link at the
appropriate time when a project hits the
IPR gate, right? Nayab knows, right?
She's the one who's putting up all the
things that this is gonna happen or this
is not gonna happen.
So why not we leave it to Nayab?
Right, right, so.
I mean, the amount of, for us,
the amount of times that I have to keep
up with the dates, I mean,
I think my math memory has increased like,
I think, crazily. I mean,
if you're getting rid of Jira,
Yeah.
then automatically,
I think the Deliver Pro is gonna...
fall into my lap. So I think then again,
I can populate the dates over there and
see what we can do about it because again,
we are very particular about following
the process.
I'm sure Nausheen can agree because again,
the dates on the like client,
the projects and you know,
the completion date again.
the IPR dates and you know, all of this,
like following the dates is something
that keeps us all in track. So.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think that's what we can maybe.
Take, take a look into.
Nayab is gonna hate me after this meeting.
That's fine.
One.
It's okay. It's okay.
Yes.
So that's discussed.
Let's move on from the IPR.
Okay, all right.
So I think what else do we need to track
within this phase? Just the IPR.
And then let's.
Guys,
I just want to add one more thing here.
Like, you know, after every meeting,
especially if it's the, you can say,
the PM was saying,
if it's the managed services saying,
or it's the sales,
like I'm generating reports after that,
like, you know, using Avoma. So, I mean,
if you're getting rid of Jira, I mean,
like,
we certainly cannot get rid of Avoma.
It's part of our daily processes.
But like attaching something like,
you know,
having the report system instead of
moving the report into the Slack,
we could just create a repository into
the deliver pro and where all the reports
are in one place.
Like what do you think about that?
Good idea.
Yeah, I like it.
Requires a lot of,
requires a lot of money,
but that's a good idea.
Yeah.
Because, you know,
right now we just we have certain things
for a team,
like we are putting some things on
SharePoint,
then we are uploading some things on
Slack.
I feel like there's not a proper
structure to it, so if you're working on,
like, you know,
enhancing the overall efficiency of the
operations,
we can just move the reports that we have
on Slack.
and just for specifically for the
professional services,
and we could just put it up in the
deliver pro. Like, you know,
this was the same today,
these were the reports, and maybe,
maybe we can train the deliver pro to
extract the information from the report
that I put in there, if that makes sense.
That does, let's add that,
add that to the future announcement list.
Mhm.
Okay.
Which Nayab is creating again. So Nayab,
more work for you. Congratulations.
Good.
Yes.
I mean,
I am generating the reports anyway,
Okay.
so I could just copy the report that I'm
putting up on Slack.
Yeah.
I'm just gonna put that on DeliverPro.
It doesn't,
it's not gonna change any anything for me,
but...
Yeah, good work.
And, and coming back to like Faraz,
your your like awesome idea about Nayab
Yeah.
doing this, and I think Nayab,
I wanna ask you a question in the IPR
meetings, like...
They have to approve the solution, right?
What if it doesn't get approved and you
guys have to do another pass?
Does that happen for a project or every
single project, but the Kelly meeting,
man, it's like, okay.
Well.
Okay,
so every IPR process has to go through
Ramesh review.
So until unless if Ramesh is not
reviewing it,
if he's not giving his approval,
At Taha.
these projects are not at all moving to
any other phrase. So that's how it is.
Ramesh gives the, you know,
I also shared the report.
With.
for the IPR in the e-mail whenever the,
you know, the IPR is done.
So the report contains everything that
what was the deal,
what was the feedback that was shared,
what work is going on,
anything that needs to be changed. So,
you know, it's a whole sort of report.
I'll add you to the meeting.
You'll have an idea about what I'm
OK, OK, OK, but.
talking about.
So, we can,
we can like put up a gateway over there
that you know Ramesh needs to approve the
change in the IPR, and if it's good to go,
then you know we can move towards the
next phase that is build and implement.
Okay.
Okay, so solution approved by IPR,
I guess Ramesh is a part of that,
you know,
so I don't want to write his name
specifically over here,
but I guess it's understood that it has
to pass through like Ramesh and then this
meeting. And in this meeting,
Chris and Qasim are there, right?
Like going over.
The Projects, OK, and then.
Yep, yep. It's a very important meeting.
I mean, without the IPR,
no deal can move into the build and
implement, no matter, because again,
we also had a lot of previous deals that
are still stuck there,
Exactly.
and they're not moving to build and
implement without the IPR.
Okay.
Okay,
and so let's go on to the gates of this
phase, which is design and review.
We just have three solution design
artifacts reviewed by SA and team,
solution improved by IPR,
and then GR stories,
which are also being generated are...
Validated by the the PM, so.
Human gates, you know, very human games.
We're not tracking any micro.
Any questions Faraz on this space?
Nope, no questions on phase two,
but I do have a thing that I might have
Okay.
to jump off in next two minutes.
Okay, okay, same.
Let me set up another meeting on Monday
and we can go over the last two phases,
but the idea is pretty much the same.
I think you have a bit of an idea.
I will work on the Word document for this.
It may take me a couple of days.
I have more free time on Tuesday.
True.
So maybe I can share that with you on
Tuesday and take out.
That's perfect.
And you just want a Word document of this
whole like methodology, right?
Yes.
Like nothing more, nothing less.
Exactly,
like I am gonna just change that document,
Alright, speaking.
so just make it in the SharePoint.
I'm gonna change it in this way,
Okay.
where we can, you know,
actually I can actually use it and
Okay, got it.
deliver, so like it has the idea,
because currently it has the PDF and it
Tigger.
doesn't know what to do with it.
Right, right. Okay. I can do it.
Okay, thank you. Thank you guys.
It was a productive meeting.
Perfect.
Thank you for your contributions and help.
Thank you. Thank you, Javed.
No worries, Hashim. Great work, guys.
Let's see more improvements in the
Yeah, and have.
process.
Yep, and have a great weekend.
All right.
Same to you guys.
You too, guys. Take care. Goodbye.
Okay, a lot of this.
Right.